# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

pizza_order.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

property1.save()
property2.save()
property3.save()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

The id's have not been assigned until it is saved to the database.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

attr_reader :id

@id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']

@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i ?

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

The id needs to have a valid id number.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

One individual should be able to get all the others.
When called on the class it should not require an instance to be present to create a new instance. This method should be the responsibility of the class.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

Arrays of hashes?

@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To protect from an SQL injection attack.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

`find_by_id` takes an integer ID number and `find_by_address` takes a string address.

Q11. What are their return values?
